* Installing Bolt

Bolt requires the [[http://railsengines.org/][Rails Engines]] plug-in to be installed correctly.
Installing Rails Engines plug-in is pretty straight forward:

 1. Download and install engines using [[http://railsengines.org/download][these instructions]]
 2. Edit your =config/environment.rb= according to the Rails Engines
    =README= file

Once you have Rails Engines installed, place Bolt into your
=vendor/plugins= directory as you would any other plugin.  Then follow
the remaining installation steps.

** Step 1. Migrating the Database Schema

Create the necessary migration file, and migrate your database schema:

<example>
$ script/generate plugin_migration
$ rake db:migrate
</example>

** Step 2. Add a Column to Your User Model

Bolt does not place any restrictions on which model you consider your
"user" model.  However, in all the documentation for Bolt, it is
usually referred to as the =User= model.

Alter your =User= model in a migration like so:

<src lang="ruby">
add_column(:users, :bolt_identity_id, :integer)
add_index(:users,  :bolt_identity_id, :unique => true)
</src>

** Step 3. Configure URL Routing

Since Bolt has controllers, you need to tell your application about
Bolt's routes.

Add the following line to your =config/routes.rb= file (usually near the
bottom, before any catch-all routes):

<src lang="ruby">
map.from_plugin(:bolt)
</src>

** Step 4. Configure Bolt

Bolt has several configuration options that can be customized.  To
start with a basic configuration, run the following command:

<example>
$ script/generate bolt
</example>

That command will create a new file called
=config/initializers/bolt.rb=.  You'll want to edit that file and change
the settings appropriately.

For a complete list of configuration options, please consult the API
documentation for the =Bolt::Config= class, or review the =config.rb= file
in the Bolt =lib= directory.
